## Source Page 24

in the CEO pay distribution (Figure 2); and the absence of a pay dispersion decline around
2007 in other settings that are not impacted by the disclosure mandate (see Figure 3) – this
evidence supports the notion that the 2006 SEC disclosure mandate played a causal role in
the observed decline in pay dispersion.
5.2. Proxy adviser influence
We next examine the role of proxy advisers in the documented increase in industry-size
benchmarking. We conduct three sets of tests. First, we study the influence of ISS’s policy
in the composition of the compensation peer groups. Second, we study the influence of ISS’s
policy in the exclusion/inclusion of a firm from/in the focal firm’s compensation peer group.
Third, we study the role of passive investing since fund managers of passive investing vehicles
are more likely to rely on proxy adviser recommendations.
5.2.1. Composition of compensation peer groups and ISS policy
Our first set of tests examine whether the composition of firms’ compensation peer groups is
related to ISS’s peer selection methodology for compensation benchmarking. As previously
explained, ISS ranks all potential peers based on whether they are in the same industry and
of similar size. It then selects the first n peers in the ranking, where n varies from 14 to 24
depending on the number of firms in the industry of the subject firm (in most cases, n=24;
see Appendix B for details).
To gauge the potential effect of this policy, we conduct two tests. We start by examining
whether the position in the ranking generated by ISS’s policy is associated with the likelihood
that a given firm is included by the focal firm in its compensation peer group. For each focal
firm, we include all potential peers from the same GICS2 industry and rank them based on
ISS’s publicly disclosed methodology. We refer to firms’ position in this ranking as ISS rank
(where ISS rank equal to 1 implies the most closely matched peer and higher ranks indicate
a lower fit). We then test the association between this variable and Included in peer group,
which equals one if the firm is included in the focal firm’s compensation peer group, and zero
otherwise. We restrict the analysis to the period 2012-2023, as ISS published its methodology
22

<!-- page:25 -->

## Source Page 25

in December 2011. The specification includes a host of fixed effects that fully exploit the gran-
ularity of the data, including firm-by-year and peer-by-year fixed effects (which control for un-
observed time-varying firm and peer characteristics such as factors leading both ISS and firms
to independently include or exclude a peer).26 We further add variables to account for the
relative differences in firm characteristics between a focal firm and each of its potential peers.
Table 6A presents the results. The negative coefficient on ISS rank confirms the predic-
tive power of the ISS rankings: a higher ISS rank for a potential peer (indicating a lower
fit with ISS’s criteria) decreases the probability that the firm includes the peer into its peer
group. Panel A also examines whether ISS’s peer selection policy has become more influ-
ential over time (ISS’s influence could have increased due to the growth of passive investing
and the introduction of SOP). The negative and significant coefficients on the interaction
variable ISS rank × Trend confirms the increasing importance of ISS’s policy on peer se-
lection over time. With each passing year, the probability that a potential peer is chosen
after improving its rank in ISS’s methodology by one increases by 0.5 percentage points
(models 1-3). This is an economically large effect considering that the unconditional average
probability of selection for any given peer is 0.75 percent. These results hold in univariate
tests as well as in multivariate tests that include demanding fixed effects.
To mitigate the concern that using the universe of potential GICS2-peers could result
in inflated significance levels (as it increases the sample size), we repeat the analysis while
focusing only on the top-ranked 18 peers (which is the size of the average peer group; see
Table IA.2). The signs of the coefficients in models 4-6 are consistent with those in models
1-3. In sum, the results in Table 6A suggest that the conformity with the industry-size peer
benchmarking criteria used by ISS matters for peer selection and has become increasingly
important over time.
In Figure 6, we present the results of a variant of the previous analysis. To sharpen
identification, we exploit that ISS uses an arbitrary cutoff for the number of firms to be in-
cluded in its recommended compensation peer groups. As previously explained, this number
26We can add peer-by-year fixed effects, as peers are typically chosen by multiple firms in a given year.
23

<!-- page:26 -->

## Source Page 26

varies from 14 to 24 (see Appendix B for details).27 For each focal firm, we first compute
the number of potential peers in conformity with the ISS criterion (which depends on the
number of similar-sized firms in the same industry) and then rank these potential peers from
1 up to 100 following ISS’s methodology. We then plot in Figure 6 the probability that a
potential peer is included in the focal firm’s actual compensation peer group based on the
distance between the peer’s position in the ranking with respect to the cutoff used by ISS
(i.e., between 14 and 24). For example, for a focal firm with an ISS recommended peer
group consisting of 24 peers, a potential peer ranked 23rd (25th) would have a relative rank
of -1 (1). In line with Table 6A, the probability of inclusion in the peer group declines with
the ISS rank. Critically, we also observe a large discontinuity in the probability precisely at
ISS’s group size cutoff – from 22.9 at relative rank 0 to 14.9 percent at relative rank 1. The
confidence interval in the figure indicates that this decline is statistically significant.28
Table 6B presents a multivariate version of this test. For each focal firm, the sample con-
sists of potential peers that were ranked just below, at, or just above the ISS size threshold
– i.e., potential peers with relative ranks -1, 0 or 1. We regress Included in peer group (as
previously defined) on indicator variables for whether a potential peer firm is just at ISS’s
threshold (e.g., the 24th ranked firm) or just above it (e.g., 25th ranked firm).29 The coeffi-
cients on the indicator variables capture the incremental probability that a potential peer at
or just above the ISS size threshold is included in the focal firm’s actual compensation peer
group relative to a potential peer ranked just below the ISS size threshold for the firm. We
further expand the sample period to include years from 2007 to 2011. We do so to exploit
another institutional feature of our setting: ISS announced its peer selection methodology for
27Most firms have an ISS peer group size of either 24 (64 percent) or 14 (22 percent), with roughly equal
proportions for peer group sizes in between 15 and 23.
28We note that ISS publishes annually for each firm a “proxy advisory report” in which it names all the peers
that it considers appropriate for a firm as given by its methodology. It seems likely that compensation
committees and their consultants are aware of those reports, thereby increasing the likelihood that the
named peers are picked.
29Given an ISS peer group size of, say, 24, differences in firm characteristics between 24th and 25th ranked
peers are likely random. Table IA.4 in the internet appendix provides a balance table for the peer firms
whose ranks fall just below versus just at the size cutoff used in ISS’s recommended peer group for the
focal firms. It shows very few significant differences other than in size (which is the criteria used by ISS
to construct the ranking).
24

<!-- page:27 -->

## Source Page 27

the first time in its “U.S. Corporate Governance Policy 2012 Update” on December 20, 2011
(see Gibson, 2011). The specific timing of this policy change allows us to analyze whether
the discontinuity appears only as of 2012 – i.e., the first year in which ISS implemented the
change in peer selection methodology. Table 6B shows that this is indeed the case: we do
not find that the ranking relative to the size cutoff matters prior to ISS’s policy change in
2012 (see models 1-5). In contrast, we find a statistically significant drop in the likelihood of
being selected when a potential peer has a rank just outside ISS’s recommended peer group
size after 2012 (see models 6-10).
5.2.2. Peer group additions/exclusions and ISS policy
Our second set of tests examines whether exclusion/addition of a potential peer from/to the
ISS recommended peer group is associated with an exclusion/addition of that firm from/to
the focal firm’s disclosed compensation peer group in the following year. The analysis, shown
in Table 7, is conducted at the firm-peer-year level.
We first focus on exclusions. The dependent variable, Dropped peer is an indicator
t+1
variable for whether a peer in year t is excluded from the focal firm’s compensation peer
group in year t+1. On the right-hand side, Dropped by ISS in t is an indicator variable that
equals one if ISS had included a peer in year t − 1 in its peer group but dropped it from
its recommended peer group in year t. The specification includes a host of control variables
to control for the most common reasons for which firms are usually excluded.30 Like in
Table 6, we again add firm-by-year and peer-by-year fixed effects to control for unobserved
time-varying firm and peer characteristics.
To further tighten identification, in model 4 we focus the analysis on a narrow window
around the peer group size cutoff used by ISS. Specifically, we define Just dropped below ISS
30The vector of control variables is as follows. In ISS peer group at t-1 is an indicator variable for whether
the firm met ISS peer selection criteria in the previous period. Peer delisted at t is an indicator variable
which is equal to 1 if the peer firm was delisted from the stock exchange in year t (e.g., as a result of a
merger, bankruptcy or liquidation). Change in relative market value is the annual change (from year t−1
to year t) in the relative market value of the peer (i.e., peer’s market value scaled by focal firm’s market
value). Similarly, Change in relative sales is the annual change (from year t − 1 to year t) in the relative
sales of the peer. Finally, Total assets, Tobin’s Q, Sales growth, Stock return, and Idiosyncratic volatility
are the usual controls for firm characteristics as in Table 2B (see Appendix A for definitions).
25

<!-- page:28 -->

## Source Page 28

cutoff as an indicator variable for whether the peer was inside ISS’s peer group size cutoff in
t − 1 (i.e., relative rank -4 to 0) and just outside the cutoff in year t (i.e., relative rank 1 to
5).31 Firms in the vicinity of the size cutoff should be almost identical in firm characteristics
and therefore should have – absent any ISS influence – a similar probability of being included
in the focal firm’s compensation peer group.
In parallel to the previous tests, we also analyze whether a firm is more likely to add
a peer to its benchmark group after ISS policy adds the peer to ISS’s recommended peer
group in the prior year. Because it relates to additions (rather than exclusions), we include
for each focal firm the universe of potential peers with non-missing data (which results in
a much higher number of observations). In parallel to the above tests on deletions, we also
define an indicator variable Just rose above ISS cutoff.
Table 7 presents the results of the two sets of analysis. Models 1-3 show that firms are
more likely to exclude a peer from their benchmark groups when the peer is excluded from
their corresponding ISS peer groups in the prior year. Using the narrow subset of peers in
the vicinity of the ISS rank cutoff, we find that peers that fall just below the ISS cutoff
are also more likely to be excluded from firms’ compensation peer group (model 4). This is
consistent with the notion that firms exclude peers that do not conform with ISS’s selection
criteria. Models 5-8 show consistent patterns for additions (rather than exclusions) into
compensation peer groups. In model 8, a potential peer that was ranked just outside ISS’s
recommended peer group in year t − 1 (i.e., relative rank 1-5) but ranked just inside ISS’s
peer group in year t (i.e., relative rank -4 to 0) is more likely to be added by the focal firm to
its peer group in the following year. This further supports the idea that ISS’s industry-sized
based rankings play a causal role in firms’ adoption of industry-size benchmarking policies.
5.2.3. ISS and role of passive investing
In our final test on proxy advisor influence, we analyze whether the increased conformity to
the industry-size benchmarking criterion we document in previous tests is more pronounced
31We take a window of ±5 ranks around the cutoff, to which we refer as “relative rank 0”. We choose a
window of ±5 ranks since reducing it further leaves too few instances in which a potential peer was ranked
just inside the cutoff in one year and ranked just outside of it the next year.
26

<!-- page:29 -->